you've seen collagen protein advertise.
What are the claims that they're making?
>> I mean, it just keeps your skin looking
younger, keeps you feeling younger, and
grows out your hair, maybe.
>> Also talks about tendons and ligaments.
>> Grows out your hair, maybe.
>> Yeah, it's all right. Everybody knows
I'm bald. I'm not trying to hide it.
Yeah,
>> there's some bias here now.
>> Yeah. Yeah. It's okay. Hair is for
girls. All of those claims that the
makers of collagen protein are promoting
are untrue. And here's why.
[Music]
Hi, my name is John Jish. I am a doctor
of biomedical engineering which gives me
a unique perspective beyond a lot of
sports scientists that uh make
presentations on YouTube about how
things work with the human body from
nutrition, exercise science and just
general responses to environmental
stimuli. What we're going to talk about
today and I'm joined here by my wife the
lovely Caroline Jquish FHM covergirl
this month. I'm so proud of you. the the
question you asked me, this is maybe a
month ago, and I I wouldn't answer you
because I wanted to get it on film. You
asked me, "Is collagen protein
as good as like whatever was being how
it was being marketed?" You've seen
collagen protein advertised. What are
the claims that they're making?
>> I mean, it just keeps your skin looking
younger, keeps you feeling younger, and
grows out your hair, maybe.
>> Also talks about tendons and ligaments.
out your hair, maybe.
>> Yeah, it's all right.
Everybody knows I'm bald. I'm not trying
to hide it.
>> There's some bias here. No,
>> it's okay. Hair is for girls. So, all of
those claims that the makers of collagen
protein are promoting are untrue.
>> And here's why. The idea that they're
claiming is that if you eat collagen
that your collagen will be better. The
two have nothing to do with each other.
When you eat protein, the body breaks it
down into essential amino acids and then
anything that's not essential amino
acids, it might be included in whatever
that food is. If it's collagen, protein
maybe, or something else. So the body
makes the non-essential amino acids and
then whatever essential amino acids that
happen to be there get assembled into
human proteins which can potentially be
appropriated for healthy skin.
>> So the way to have healthy skin is have
a higher level of essential amino acids
which is really what your body needs to
assemble human proteins. And again, the
idea that you're gonna eat a thing and
that specific thing is going to
translate into that thing in your body,
that's not a thing. Like collagen
doesn't become collagen. It just becomes
any old protein. And what's best is have
something like portagen. You never skip
this, do you?
>> No, I've been using it since the very
beginning, since we first met. And this
is one of my favorite products that Jake
Wish Biomedical sells. It started as a
cancer treatment right
>> for something that cancer chemotherapy
patients would use to keep muscle mass
on them for longer. So it's
>> designed to prevent muscle wasting
>> and and so essential amino acids are
what you're going to focus on. This was
it really came from the creators
of the master amino acid profile which
is the guys who really figured out like
what we need in what proportion as far
as essential amino acids go. And by
getting that into the body and
prioritizing that, you become a protein
assembling machine and that improves
your skin. That improves tendons and
ligaments. But it also does it in
context to what your body needs. So for
example, will you have better skin by
having a higher level of essential amino
acids? Yes. Are you going to reverse
aging and like stop wrinkles? Maybe a
little bit. But ultimately there is no
way to like force the body to deage you.
That's kind of marketing nonsense as
well. I I I know that having high level
of protein and especially essential
amino acids will help, but there's
there's no sort of miracle like I'm
going to go backwards 20 years in age
except maybe losing weight.
>> I think that's just like the scam of the
beauty industry too is having this
almost grotesque
focus on vanity and not longevity of
life. And this is one of those products
that if you do place value on living a
long happy life, I would not skip the
essential amino acids.
>> We we got to be real like aging
gracefully is what everybody wants.
Anti-aging or reverse reversal of aging.
In fact, if you go to like an anti-aging
conference, and you and I have laughed
about this, it's breast implants and
Botox. That's really the anti-aging
business, which is nothing against that,
but you need to keep in mind you're not
going to take a a pill or a powder and
it's going to like wind back the clock.
>> That's true.
>> Yeah. Just just be fit and lean and you
will age as gracefully as you could
possibly imagine. And I think a lot of
people are realizing what you just said
and we're moving towards kind of
embracing the aging process and aging
gracefully like you said and not
focusing so much on vanity and plastic
surgery. And I know for me personally,
I've had Botox in the past and I deeply
regret it. I actually got a form of
botulism from cosmetic Botox injections.
>> That's basically like Botox poisoning.
Some people don't react, but Botox is
short for biotoxin, which is a
neurotoxin which stops muscles from
firing in the general area and it does
get throughout your system. Botox was
originally developed for cerebopal
pulsic patients. So was injected near
the spine so that you could calm the
nerves that are getting too many
signals. This is what happens with a
pulseic patient. And so they can move
normally for a given amount of time
after the injections. The injections
last, you know, maybe a month with CP
patient. And u I even know the guy who
invented it, Hans Forsber, a nice guy.
Yeah. Anyway, so
you you really got to like
aging is not a bad thing. You just want
to do it better than everybody else. If
this video helped you, I want you to
subscribe and follow. I'm going to put
out videos on a regular basis. I think
they're going to help a whole lot of
people. Especially if you're one of
those people that doesn't just instantly
grow from lifting regular weights. We've
got the answer for you.